In your own terms, define the following terms:

What is HTTP?

HTTP is the hypertext transfer protocol, which manages requests between a client's device and a server.
A TCP connection is opened between the two, and requests/responses are communicated between the two 
using HTTP as a standard for that communication.  

What is a URL?

A URL is the uniform resource locator.  This consists of several parts.  Consider 
HTTP://domainname/path/?key=value&key2=value2

 HTTP:// or HTTPS:// describes the protocol for parsing the request. 
 domainname is a text representation of an IP address, and is mapped from the string to the ipaddress by a DNS.
path is the relative path of the resource that is being accessed to the root directory pointed to by the ip address.
? is the beginning of a query string. Key=value is an attribute of that query string, and additional
attributes are separated by an ampersand.

What is DNS?

DNS the domain name system, which stores key value pairs for online resources.  
Essentially, a web domain is a text representation of an ip address.  Users remember this simple text string,
and a DNS maps it to the desired IP address.  

What is a query string?

A query string contains attributes of a GET request.  These attributes can be used by the HTML or javascript code 
to alter the contents of the webpage.

What are two HTTP verbs and how are they different?

GET and POST are two common http verbs.  GET is a request type that accesses data from a server (no side effects), and 
POST is a request that modifies content on the server (side effects).

What is an HTTP request?
An http request consists of a verb, a path, a HTTP version, and additional headers.
The verb describes what type of request is going to be sent, and the additional headers clarify what the
host name is, and what content is expected.


What is an HTTP response?

An http response consists of a HTTP version, a response code, a response code description, and additional headers
within a response body. These additional headers describe the content that is being transferred 
back to the request.

What is an HTTP header? Give a couple examples of request and response headers you have seen.

An HTML header is a key:value pair that contains information about the content being requested or the 
content within a response.  For a request "HOST: hostname" is a common header, which describes the location 
of the resource being requested. "Accept-Language" tells the server what kind of language the response. should
be returned in.  A response will contain headers such as "Last-Modified", "Date", and "Server".

What are the processes that happen when you type “http://somesite.com/some/page.html” into a browser?

somesite is sent to the DNS to lookup the associated IP address.  Then the URL is used to form the request 
according to the protocol specified (http://).  A TCP connection is formed with the server at that address,
and the HTTP request is sent to the server.  The server parses the HTTP request, accesses the database for
the required information (and modifies any information as necessary).  Then, this information is written into 
an HTTP response, and sent back to the client. The browser will interpret the response, parse the HTML, and
generate the content on the page (create the DOM).

